All righty, happy Thursday, y'all. Thanks for joining me today. We're just getting started.
It's right at 10 a.m. Central Standard Time for me here in Texas, but we'll wait a few
minutes to let some folks roll in, and then we'll get started on our RStudio Team eval
demo. We're going to have a bit of a live code, a little bit of slides, and definitely going to be
taking questions as they come up in the chat. If you do have any questions, feel free to drop them
into the YouTube chat here on the live stream that you're watching. So thanks for joining me,
and again, we'll get started in a little bit. I'm going to go ahead and drop a few links
into the chat, so if you wanted to follow along or wanted to get more information,
you could do so. Give me one second, I'll drop those for you.
A lot of the examples I'm using, you can find the public source code here on my GitHub, so that's
going to have some of the details for the slides as well as some of the example applications we're
showing in R and Python. I also have my colleagues from RStudio who will be answering some questions,
so if you see me talking and you see people answering questions in the chat, I'm lucky
enough to have some great team members behind me. We also have Kelly O'Brien, who's the RStudio
Connect product manager, so she might answer some additional questions there in the chat.
What we've been doing is kind of for a lot of these is if you'd like to say hello in the chat,
feel free to say hi to each other in the chat. Usually it's between 60 and 600 people,
somewhere in that range in the group, so feel free to talk amongst yourselves or ask questions as
well. We're about two minutes past, so I'm going to go ahead and start screen sharing here in a
second. I saw somebody mention that there's some echoing, so I'm just checking on that,
but I think we're okay. All right, so let me go ahead and kick this off and we'll get started.
So I'm going to share my whole desktop here. So for today, again, like I mentioned, there's going
to be a little bit of some slide craft in terms of like we go some slides, we're going to walk
through, but the bulk of today is going to be walking through the RStudio team evaluation.
So the team evaluation is all three of our professional products, so RStudio Workbench,
RStudio Connect, and RStudio Package Manager. The evaluation means that they're time-gated
in terms of it's just trying out the products and we provide the hosted environment for that.
If you did want to try it out, you just fill out this form and you can click start in the evaluation
and then I'll walk through what the evaluation actually looks like, how you can use the products,
and then really what today is about is understanding how these things fit into
your workflow in an enterprise, as well as how you make some of these arguments for
using open source. Even if you're not using our professional products, we'd love for you to use
them, but even if you're not going to use them, how do you motivate folks to use R and Python
and all the wonderful packages that you use in both languages within your organization?
So again, I'll jump back into the slides and we'll talk a little bit about RStudio team,
and then we'll hop over into the evaluation proper and have quite a bit of live code and
kind of walking through the whole process. Again, for RStudio team, we think of this as really like
a single home for R and Python for all data science teams. So regardless of if you're 90%
R, 10% Python, or 100% Python and no R or some other mix in the middle, we've tried to build
these products in a way that they're serving both kind of constituencies, that both people are very
happy and able to be productive with these products. If you did want to follow along with
the slides, you can do it. So here, I'm going to drop this link in the chat as well. Those are
going to be available at colorado.rstudio.com slash RSE slash RStudio dash team dash press.
So again, we're hosting these on RStudio Connect. So kind of a good, fun example there.
As far as the three products, if you weren't familiar with them and kind of the different
people who would be interested, you know, maybe you're a data scientist or data analyst,
maybe you're a decision maker, a business user, someone else kind of trying to make decisions with
data, with data science, or maybe you're even an R admin or Python admin or IT admin that's more
concerned about all this open source work that's being done and people are trying to be productive,
but you're trying to support them and make things secure and scalable and have proper operations
around it. So again, we kind of think of this as these are the three core personas that we're
trying to solve problems for. In terms of data scientists really want to use R and Python,
they want to develop their applications and share them with the rest of the organization,
whether that's for other data scientists or for business users trying to make decisions with the
data science work they're doing. And then the IT team, whether you're an R admin, meaning that
you're kind of in both worlds or a Python admin or a traditional IT admin, you're just trying to
support all this and make things operate smoothly. Again, the three products are RStudio Workbench,
RStudio Package Manager, and RStudio Connect. RStudio Workbench is where you would do all of
your data analysis and kind of writing your code. So you can write there in R, you can write there
in Python, you have the RStudio IDE, as well as VS Code and Jupyter. So a nice mix of different
environments you can write code in. RStudio Connect is where you'll publish all your results.
So that could be R Markdown reports or Jupyter notebooks. It could also be interactive
applications like Shiny or Dash or Flask or Streamlit in Python. And then lastly, RStudio Package
Manager is supporting all those open source libraries. You can actually store copies of them
on-premise or in your cloud, behind your firewall, wherever you need them, as well as your own
internally developed packages. And these are going to be sent into Workbench into Connect in this
process. So as far as what we're kind of focusing on, here at RStudio, we're focused on open source
first in terms of we're really trying to build an open source model where we give away actually
the vast majority of the software we create. So things like Tidy Models, the Tidyverse, R Markdown,
those are open source packages that we're giving away, you know, freely available to anyone who
wants to use them. The professional products build on top of those to provide some of the things that
organizations are more interested in. So security, scalability, you know, access control, as well as
logging and authentication and all that. We're also focused on being code first in terms of
we really believe that to do, you know, really serious data science and do, you know, productive work,
that code is going to make you better. And then learning even a little bit of code or learning a
lot of code can help you be a more productive data scientist and have more control over what
you're building. And lastly, centralized or even cloud-based. So this means that our products run
on a server, whether that's on-premise, bare metal, you know, existing servers you have, or in a virtual
private cloud like you might find on, say, AWS, the Amazon Marketplace, or Azure, or Google Cloud,
or the other providers. Again, we're focused on R and Python as the languages of choice for these,
and this will actually have R and Python code throughout the presentation today.
And then as far as these, I've already talked about them, but RStudio Workbench, RStudio Connect,
and RStudio Package Manager, all three of those products make up RStudio Team, the environment
that we're talking about today. So we'll talk about one more slide, then jump into the live
coding section, but really the problem here we're trying to solve is that there's this chasm or this
gap between what data science teams are doing and trying to doing, and actually impacting the
business and, you know, creating business value or affecting decisions in a positive way.
So data science teams create things, but it's stuck on their laptop, or they're trying to share
something with their boss or their colleague, and they have to email it to each other, or they,
you know, have to put into a shared drive, the person downloads it and moves it over.
As far as the other portions, you might actually have automated decisions. So you're trying to
actually put your models into, say, production, where they're interacting with your website,
or working with the, you know, other software that you want to embed in the process.
So how do we cross this chasm and get the data science work that you're doing
into the hands of either live decision makers, or into the automated decisions that people are
doing inside of the software? So as a data scientist, you're either creating insights,
or trying to share insights, or creating models that are going to be used downstream,
and that's what you're doing today, but you're still trying to get them closer to either decision
makers for automated decisions, or actual human interaction. So in our world, you'll be creating
these insights, or writing code in R and Python in a data science workbench that supports both
languages. So log in one time, you have your full environment for R, you have your full environment
for Python. So with R and Python, you can build amazing things. You can build applications,
reports, APIs, you can send, you know, programmatic emails, as opposed to manual emails.
There's a lot of power here in terms of things you can build. Once these things are finished,
you can now get them onto a deployment server, basically a centralized location,
where if people want to access the things you're creating, they know to go here. They go to this
location, they log in, it's access controlled, it automatically scales up to meet the user needs,
all the things you want there. And this will deliver the actual applications,
as well as, you know, scheduling emails, and other assets, or automations that go to
live decision makers, or hosting things like APIs, so Plumber in R, or Flask, or FastAPI in Python,
which integrate into other software, whether it's, you know, Java, or JavaScript, or your website,
any other type of things there. And lastly, to make sure all these things work together,
the package manager will actually ease some of this maintenance and reproducibility of
these environments to manage your packages for both the workbench, in terms of where you're
writing code, and you're developing assets, and your deployment server, where the kind of
production appsets live. So, in terms of what this looks like, again, this is RStudio Workbench,
where you're analyzing your data, RStudio Package Manager, which is supplying the packages to
Workbench, as well as RStudio Connect, and then all the amazing open source libraries that you know,
and want to use, are, you know, the things you're actually creating. So, all of that work you've
already done to learn things like Jupyter, or Streamlit, or Shiny, or Markdown, or pins,
all these things can be published to Connect, and you can work on them inside RStudio Workbench.
All right, so let's hop over into the evaluation. Again, if you did want to do this in the future,
immediately after this, you can always go to rstudio.com slash products slash team slash
evaluation, or to search for RStudio Team Evaluation, and you'll be able to access this.
Just give us a little bit of information, and we'll send you the link to open up your own
evaluation environment. So, once you actually get an evaluation environment, this is a hosted
environment, meaning that there is nothing for you to install for the evaluation. You just go to the
URL, and you get access to the entire suite of our products for this temporary environment.
So, you have access to RStudio Workbench, access to RStudio Connect, and RStudio Package Manager,
which make up RStudio Team. It's got some additional links, in terms of if you need
some help, or if you want to learn a bit more about Team, or you have some questions, as well
as access to a built-in mail server, so you can send emails from Connect, or through some of the
automations there, and see how those work. So, really, part of the power here is that, if you
wanted to evaluate, how can I advocate for using these open source tools in my organization,
rather than having to download the software, install it, and go through this IT process,
you could actually evaluate it here in your browser, show some of the work you're doing to
your colleagues, or to your decision makers, or to your stakeholders who own the budget,
or your IT colleagues, and actually say, here's the things I could be doing. Can we move forward
and try and make this a reality? Something else to note, in terms of once you've got to this page,
you're going to be logging into everything with the default password and username.
I've changed the username for this environment, because I don't want anyone to accidentally log
into my environment with this information, so I have changed this for mine, but for you,
if you were to open up this environment, you could go to, say, RStudio Workbench,
and it's going to have the default username and password as RStudio, and RStudio. So, easy to
remember and log in, and you can use the same credentials inside RStudio Connect.
As far as, the next question will probably be like, okay, cool, I actually want to see this
in action, so let's open up RStudio Workbench, I'll accept this, and you'll note that it
automatically logs me in, because I've already logged in here. If I wanted to, it will come with
some basic examples of code, but I could always upload or write my own code here. It's a full
RStudio environment, so let's go ahead and open an RStudio session. I'm inside RStudio team now,
so it might look a little bit different than your traditional RStudio environment,
but the core idea is I can open up a new RStudio session by clicking new session,
we'll say my first session, I want to use RStudio, and I'll start that up,
and it'll set me over into the happy environment that I know and love,
RStudio, the IDE. At this point, you know, maybe I have a script I want to use, I could always bring
it in from version control, so if I wanted to clone something from, say, like a GitHub repository, I
could do that, or you can actually upload files from your desktop, so I'll go to my downloads,
and I have nothing in here, because I cleared it out, but I've actually uploaded a few different
things for these examples, so there's some things about pens, and some things about our markdown,
and Python, and Shiny, all sorts of different assets here that I can look at.
So if you had code you wanted to upload, again, please note that this is not a production
environment, in terms of you shouldn't try and use, you know, this evaluation as the environment
we're going to do all your data science work today, but this is an evaluation of how you could
do some of that work, so you can try it out here, and see if you wanted to move forward
with evaluating it, say, on-premise, or actually moving forward with professional products.
Part of the back out here, in terms of, obviously, we've seen RStudio, I'll go into a little bit more
in terms of what you can do there, but it's more than just RStudio, in terms of I can open up a
new session, and I can actually change the editor, so if I were a Python user, I might be more
comfortable in, say, JupyterLab, or Jupyter Notebook, where I could use the notebook environment to
write Python code, and publish those notebooks to Connect. If I were writing, say, applications,
like Streamlit, Dash, or Flask, I might be more comfortable in VS Code, which is a great editor for
Python, as well as things like JavaScript, and some other languages, so those are also available to be
opened up through RStudio. There was a question in the chat, in terms of using additional clusters,
so this environment is run, this hosted evaluation is run in AWS, in a single environment,
so it only has access to that local cluster. If you did have something like an elastic cluster
externally to that, something like Kubernetes, or Slurm, you could also launch sessions that
are running in that elastic environment, so that is an option if you were running it on-premise,
or in your own private cloud. For the hosted evaluation, you are limited to this local
environment, or local cluster. So, let's start up the Jupyter Notebook, and that hops us right
into Jupyter Notebook. There's a welcome to Jupyter that we can go into, that has some,
a little IPython notebook that we can open up, and now we're directly into a Jupyter Notebook,
and it's pre-filled with some codes, you can play around here, you can run the different lines,
and create some plots and things, but just showing you that all the different plots,
and assets that you're working with, work inside RStudio.
So, we've shown RStudio, we've shown Jupyter Notebooks, and let's, just for fun, we'll show
a VS Code session as well, because I know a lot of folks that I worked with previously,
that were using Python, really liked VS Code. So here, hopping in directly into VS Code, again,
it's kind of just VS Code as it is, you can install some of the extensions that you want,
or customize it to how you see fit, and we include a little environment, so let's go to,
we'll open up a file here, open, we'll back out. So, it's mounting my home directory, so if I go
to RStudio, I can move to this files over here, and you can see the welcome to VS Code here on the
left, is where you would actually log in to click, and then you could actually access some of the
example code that's included in the hosted evaluation. All right, so we've shown RStudio,
we've shown Jupyter, we've shown kind of a lot of different things going on, so let's go back to the
home page, you can see I still have all these different sessions open, and that's part of the
power, in terms of like, I've logged in one time, my one environment that I have to log into, I've
been authenticated, and now I have access to all these different coding environments, where I can
do Python natively, I can do Python natively in Jupyter or VS Code, and I can do all my R work
inside RStudio, the IDE. So let's hop into the IDE, and we'll go into a few of the different projects.
So we can start off with, say, an R Markdown. That's one of my favorite packages in R, and it's
very powerful. You can see I've uploaded a file here that actually hasn't been expanded, so let's
go ahead and untar this bundle. So I open up this bundle file, and that will actually open up these
different portions, and I have R Markdown, as well as a manifest file, some data, and the R project
I'm working with. I'm going to look over at the chat real quick. I see a couple things coming in.
Disable certain types of environments where, say, Jupyter Notebooks are already available
via other systems. Yeah, so there's a good question about, are all these mandatory? You
know, if you just wanted to use RStudio Workbench for RStudio, that's more than fine. You know,
say you have a JupyterHub instance or something else, and you're not using Jupyter, that's great.
Part of what we're trying to solve here is having kind of an entire workbench, and that's why it was
rebranded from RStudio Server Pro to RStudio Workbench is because we're trying to serve
different personas here. So not only R, but R and Python together. For a lot of the IT teams,
they wanted to manage one environment as opposed to managing three or four different custom
environments. Now, from an IT perspective, this is lower amount of work for them because they're
managing just RStudio Workbench that has all the different environments in one place.
So as far as these, you know, files, so I've opened up in R Markdown files what I'm doing here.
So let's go ahead and, you know, open up the R Markdown. It's a pretty traditional one, and it
says I've got some packages I need to install, and that's more than fine. You can install the
packages you'd like to see in here. So let's say I wanted to install Flex Dashboard. I can install
the Flex Dashboard package, and even though I'm in this hosted evaluation, I can still install
packages as I see fit. So let's look at other ones that are available. We have Blastula,
Deplier. We can install all these packages if we wanted to. So let's go ahead and do some of that
because part of the benefit of working with Package Manager inside here is we get really fast
package installations. So let's install just three packages that are kind of already available. We
can install them. If you've only been working on your desktop, you might be used to really, really
fast package installs because CRAN provides binary packages which install very quickly.
So for this, for a Linux environment like I'm running here in RStudio Workbench, packages have
to be built ahead of time in terms of that's what Package Manager is providing is providing the
Linux binary so they install very quickly. So I was able to install those packages while I'm talking
and kind of faster than I'm talking because I'm using the binaries from RStudio Package Manager.
So I've written this R Markdown document. It's got a lot of Python, or sorry, a lot of
Deplier code. It's got some parameters and different settings I can do.
And say I want to share this with a colleague. Sure, I can take the R Markdown document and I
can email it or I can put it in a shared drive or something else and they could, you know, render it
or open up the HTML. But for a business user, they may not want to receive it that way. Like
they're like, I don't know what R is. I just want to see the final report. And that's what Connect
is providing. So once you finalize your report, you can actually take this document and with the blue
publish button up here, you can take all the documents in this directory. So there's the R
Markdown report, email, and these returns, and we can create a new asset on RStudio Connect.
So I'll click publish, and this will actually take that document, all the dependencies,
build everything, and install it on Connect for me. So it's basically taken a snapshot of all the
different packages and the environment I'm working in, and it's recreating that environment for me
on RStudio Connect. So now, again, in the time it took me to tell you about it, I now have a URL
that I can share with my colleagues and I can limit access or grant access based on how secure
I want it to be. For today's example, let's say that I want to show this to y'all. So I can
actually copy this link that I just created, and we can paste it here, and you could actually go to
this asset that I just created. Now, I open up the sharing settings, so it kind of opens it up
inside Connect, and this is our first kind of foray into Connect. We've published something,
so it pulls it up here, and we can look at it, and it defaults to making it where only I,
or the specific user who published it, can see it. As the publisher, I have the ability to change
these sharing settings. So maybe I want to make it available to anyone within my organization.
As long as they can log in, they can see this asset. Or what I just did is actually make it
public, so anyone with this URL can open it. That's not typical in terms of most of the time
you don't want to make things fully available to the entire world, but maybe there's some cases
where you might want to do that. If I were to limit it to specific users or groups, this is
pulling in from my authentication, so I don't have to go around creating groups in one thing and
creating groups in another thing. Whatever your IT team is using for authentication can most likely
integrate with RStudio Connect, and then you can use that existing authentication to bring in the
users or groups from there. The other component is this is a parameterized R Markdown. So while
it's showing one example for this code, it's got a nice interactive graphic and some
interactive graphics down here, it also, Connect can handle those parameters inside it natively.
So for your business users, they can come in here and change parameters and rerun the report.
So they don't have to go ask you, hey, I saw you generate this report, can you generate a new
version for me, and then they wait, and then you send them a new one, and you have this back and forth.
They can actually answer some of their own questions and generate a new report or a new asset
very quickly here. So they can actually rerun and kind of create the new parameters as they see fit.
They can either save that or just view it and look at it or email it to themselves if they wanted to,
so I could send a copy of this to myself or to collaborators after I've changed some of these
parameters. So let's save this as more aggressive. And again, I have the ability to make this
available for me or for anyone who accesses this document. Let's just say I want to keep it for me,
and now I have two different versions of the same report, and I can flip between the default
or this one I've saved as the more aggressive version of this portfolio.
Something else that's really exciting in terms of what this can provide is I can
schedule this document. Because I've published it with the source code and because Connect
is a data science platform, it can actually re-execute R and Python code. So this R Markdown,
maybe I want to run this every day. So again, rather than me having to manually generate a
report, manually send an email, manually change parameters, I can just have this report update in
place every day at a specific time. So 1026 AM, let's not do that. I want it to run really early
because my boss comes in at 630, and I want to make sure that it's available for her so she can
see it whenever she comes in first thing in the morning. And I want it to send an email every
time it sends so that she gets the kind of quick notes in her email, and they can come to Connect
to see the details as well. So now I've saved it as a schedule in terms of this will now be executed
every single day at 5 AM and will execute all these different things and regenerate this in
place for me. So very, very powerful. I'm going to pause again and see, it looked like some good
discussion happening in the chat, and Kelly, it looked like there was maybe a question that you're
pointing towards me. Do you mind sending that over? So what I see is that for RStudio Workbench,
kind of going back, leaving Connect, going back to RStudio Workbench real quick, there's a question
about using multiple versions of R. Yes, one of the benefits of using RStudio Workbench is using
multiple versions of R in the same environment. So while this is using RStudio 4.1, which is
one of the latest versions of RStudio, maybe I have a project from six months ago
or a year ago that was actually using R3.5, and I want to make sure that I can actually
go back to that environment and work with it. I still have project-specific libraries
in terms of because I've moved from R4.1 to R3.5, these packages need to be installed,
but I can do that very quickly because, again, I'm using Package Manager to supply the packages
to this environment. So I can install these dependencies. RStudio Workbench tells me, hey,
these are missing, so let's install them really quickly. Looking at some of the chat questions
while this installs, so it's installing 55 packages, and it's going to do that by the time
I'm able to read some of the chat messages, so that's pretty exciting.
Yeah, so another good question was about, you know, maybe I want to generate something that's,
you know, outside of Connect. Like, it's great to have, you know, HTML content, but my boss or
my colleague wants to see something in PowerPoint or see something in Word. So, yeah, absolutely.
So we can actually open up, let's go back and do a new session while that's loading because I have
my server, I can open up a new session. So let's go to, I believe, the report, open up that one,
and while my other session is executing, like it's doing all this package installation,
it's about halfway done, I'm now in a new environment where I can, you know, do other
things while it's occurring. So as a data scientist, I can be more productive because
I have multiple sessions running on a bigger server, and there's more compute available,
there's more RAM, there's more CPU, as opposed to my desktop, which is limited to whatever is there.
So the question was about maybe using PowerPoint. So, yes, you can generate PowerPoint documents
with R Markdown. This one actually can create one based off of a template, and I can publish
that to RStudio Connect. So let's publish it really quickly. So I'm going to publish that
document to Connect so that, you know, people can go to Connect from their laptop and they can go
look at it, and they can access the beautiful HTML content that I've created or the R Markdown
report I've created, but it can also generate and attach a PowerPoint as an email. So this is almost
done. Again, very quick to install things and move it across. So now I have a PDF report that's
hosted on RStudio Connect. It's got some static graphics and other things, and if I email a copy
of it, so let's just email this version to myself, it will not only attach the PDF, but it will also
attach a PowerPoint file. So if we go back to the hosted evaluation, I'm in the home environment here,
I can scroll down to web mail and open up that link, and now I'm in my inbox here, and you can
see I've got a couple different emails, but this is the one that was just sent over, and again, this
is, you know, similar information. So not only is it able to embed a ggplot directly in the graphics
inside the body of my email, but if you look at the attachments, it's also got a CSV file, so in
terms of what was the output from my script, it's got that PDF report, and then it's generated this
PowerPoint file. I can download that, and I can open it natively in PowerPoint because it's a
PowerPoint file, and now I have this kind of branded, specific PowerPoint file that I've
generated automatically with, you know, ggplot, with tables, with text, that I'm able to generate
quickly into PowerPoint. So if I did need to meet someone in the spot where they want to be,
where that's Microsoft Office, or if they're comfortable receiving HTML
as an R Markdown document, you can do it multiple different ways.
Looks like some other questions about Bioconductor. So we do support Bioconductor
packages in RStudio Workbench and in RStudio Package Manager, so you can actually host those
in RStudio Package Manager and install them inside Workbench. The managing of conflicts
would be the same whether you're using R or RStudio or RStudio Workbench. That's kind of
something native to R, not something specific to Workbench specifically. As far as using specific
package versions, so let's say that we're inside RStudio. If I install .packages and I do dplyr,
it's going to install whatever is the latest available on CRAN or on Package Manager. So
we're at dplyr 1.0.7. If I wanted to have a very specific package version, then I could use
the renv package, and that actually allows me to set very specific environments that are
recreatable. You don't have to use this. This is something that's optional, but this can allow you
to not only install very specific packages, but capture all those packages at a specific version
if, say, you were collaborating on a more complex document.
So we've shown kind of this workflow of writing R Markdown inside RStudio, publishing it to RStudio
Connect, and then viewing them on RStudio Connect, as well as scheduling them and sending emails.
That's a lot of power right there, and that's honestly a bulk of what I do and a lot I get
value out of is just automating some of these R Markdown tasks with RStudio Connect. So take
this document that's doing this complex script, rerun it every day or every week, and generate an
output, whether that output is, like we showed here, a PowerPoint file, or it could be a CSV
file, or even fitting a long-running model and saving it out to, like, a database or to a model
collection. It can do even more complex things than that, though. Like, we're not just limited
to R Markdown documents. So let's actually flip over to, say, tidy models real quick.
Another benefit of the Workbench environment is that not only do I have, like, all these
different sessions I can open, but they are larger than my desktop in terms of my laptop
may have, like, eight gigabytes of RAM and two cores. My server could have 256 gigabytes of RAM
and 60 cores. You know, it can go as big as your budget is in terms of you can make a server much
larger. Per that example, let's say I have a background tuning script that I'm running. So
this is some tidy models code. It's doing an SDM model, and it's doing grid search. So it's,
you know, going across a bunch of resamples, going across a bunch of different parameters,
and doing this grid tuning. So, of course, I could just run this, and it'll take a few minutes to
execute. Or within RStudio, I can actually source this as a local job or as a launcher job.
A local job will execute in the same server environment that my, you know, session is running,
but as a background. A launcher job would launch in a remote session if you had that attached. So,
say, like a Kubernetes environment where it'll scale up to meet that need and scale back down.
Let's start it as a local job first. So when I start this up, it's going to do this background
tuning, and it's going to spit out some information as it goes along. Importantly, this is happening
in the background. So I can still, you know, I can still interact with my console. It's not locked up,
but it's just telling me, hey, this background tuning, this long-running script I'm running
interactively, is happening in the background. And I can actually, if that, like, interact with
it and say, okay, you know, it's about, it's on bootstrap 5 through 10, and it's going through
all the different models, and it's telling me that this has been executing for 30 seconds.
So if there is something shorter running that you just want to run the background, you don't have
to publish it to Kinect. You can run that through RStudio Workbench and just run it as a background
job. As far as while this is running, there were some good questions about databases and
database connections. So if I go to databases on RStudio, one of the benefits of using RStudio
Workbench and RStudio Connect is that you get access to all of our professional drivers.
So what this means is that not only can you use all these different databases, like, you know,
Hive, Impala, Mongo, MySQL, Snowflake, all these free databases in Workbench, but also when you
publish content RStudio Connect, they can then also use those database drivers. So you can use
them in both places and match your dev environment to your production environment.
So yes, the, you know, you can use database drivers or connections absolutely in Workbench
as well as in Connect, and you can do authentication as well if you have, like,
data level access for certain databases there as well. So a couple things going on. Let's go ahead
and close email. This background job is still running, but let's close down a few of these
things that we don't need anymore. Close this one, and that should be finishing up in maybe
20 more seconds. So we'll let that run for a little bit. Again, I'll check the chat.
Yeah, so I think that was the last one. So the job is finished now. So if I were to go here,
it'll say succeeded at 10 37 a.m. That's my local time, and you'll notice that there's nothing in
my environment. What I did was actually have it save the output out as a file. So when it was
done, I don't have it, you know, cluttering up my environment. I actually did save completely
in the background as well as a graphic. Ooh, that's a big graphic, so let's zoom out a little
bit as well as a graphic looking at the different parameters and how they all fit. So just to show
you that not only can you run it as a background job, but your side effects can be saved. So you
can save the model out. You can save graphics. You can even, you know, have an R Markdown document
in the background. So some of the other folks might be interested and say, okay, well you've
shown a lot of publishing like R Markdown, like what about something else? So again, let's go to
Jupyter real quick. I am far from an expert Python developer, but I do dabble in Python every now and
then. Just as you'd expect, you know, if I have a Jupyter notebook and I want to get it onto Connect
and I want to execute it on Connect, I have the same blue publish button. So I can publish this
to RStudio Connect. It gives me a similar thing saying, do you want to publish with source code?
So you can, you know, schedule it or rebuild it, or you just want to publish the HTML content from
the notebook itself. I've already have a requirements.txt file, so I can publish it
and it's already connected to the RStudio Connect server on the evaluation. So I can go ahead and
publish this. I've already published it, so there's this existing one, but let's go ahead and publish
it to a new location just so we can show the full process. So when I click publish, it's going to
give me quite a bit of information here as it goes through and does a similar process. It's installing
very specific versions of the Python libraries, as well as using a virtual environment and a specific
version of Python. So it's basically rebuilding the entire environment for me on RStudio Connect,
even though it's Python, it's able to do that as well. So let's go to content. Here's the document
I just published, which again is just a fairly basic Python notebook, IPython notebook with
matplotlib, some pandas graphics, and that nice seaborn swirl here. And just like I did with our
markdown, I could schedule this to execute on a schedule. So again, for both R and Python, I can
execute things as needed and evaluate them whenever I want them to be evaluated, whether
that's daily, down to the minute, or even as infrequently as a year. So all that's able to be
customized with the schedule. So we've shown a little bit about Jupyter, go ahead and close those ones
down. For VS Code, again, some people are like, oh yeah, I really love VS Code, I want to learn more
about it. Other people may not have used it before. It's a general purpose development environment, so
not necessarily specific to data science, but can do things like JavaScript or Java or, you know, general
web development, as well as using something like Python inside of it. So if I want to, I can
open up, you know, a blank Jupyter notebook in terms of, there are IPython notebook extensions for
VS Code, and I can, you know, run Python code in here. If I wanted to report pandas as PD,
it's going to run a Python kernel and start the Jupyter notebook. So we'll go ahead and use Python
3.9. I can evaluate this chunk, we'll run that, and then I could do, you know, PD ahead on a document
or something. You know, I'm actually interacting with a live Python kernel now, so I can do, like,
one plus one or whatever, and it gives me two. So I'm getting actual output out very quickly by
moving into here. Now, more traditionally, within a VS Code environment, I could actually go into
and edit, say, like, a Dash application or a Streamlit application. So let's open up one of those.
And here, again, as opposed to a Jupyter notebook where you're doing, you know, very specific cells
and text and cells and text to go through things, this is a more traditional .py file, which is
often more preferred if you're writing, like, an application like Dash or Streamlit, which are
similar to Shiny applications but in Python. So this is just kind of a bare-bones example taken
from the Streamlit server, or from their examples. Let's go ahead and create a new terminal,
and I'll also open up the README real quick. So the README has some information about the
getting started, as well as some information about how I could publish this application.
So, number one, you do have to form a connection with the server, so you'll have to generate an
API key on Connect, and you'll have to connect to that server. Publishing Streamlit applications is
done through the rsconnect Python package. So if I were to do, like, rsconnect help, that will tell
me a little bit about the rsconnect package and the different things it can do. And if I wanted
to deploy this application, I can quickly copy this over, and I can say I want to publish this,
you know, Streamlit application to Connect. Again, it's going to be very quick, so it kind of goes
very quickly, because it's using specific packages. And I can open up that application
that I just published on rcoconnect, and we'll let that load for a second. But this is a Streamlit
application that we went from VS Code to Connect very, very quickly. And again, we can interact
with it and, you know, get the graphic to change. Maybe I want to add Canada to here or something.
And now I have Canada added to my graphic. So again, the ability to do things in R and Python.
There's a question in the chat about the video. These videos will remain on YouTube forever,
so if you do want to view this later or share with a colleague, feel free to do that.
In terms of, like, cron-like scheduling for schedule control, right now it would be done
either through the rcoconnect API or via the interactive portion here. So let's go back to
content for the Jupyter Notebook here. We approach it as this way where you have the ability to do it
interactively, and you're just setting the time as well as more detail here. That's a good call
in terms of, like, cron-like scheduling. You know, maybe that's something for Kelly to look
at in the future, but right now we have this ability of doing it via the scheduler portion.
The other component in terms of, like, we've shown publishing a few different assets,
both in R and Python, as an admin or as an IT person, maybe you want to learn about, like,
how this server is working. So you can see I've used up, you know, about half of my RAM now. We
run a pretty lightweight environment because it's, again, just used for some of these evaluations,
but it tells me a little bit about, you know, how much of the computation is being used,
both the CPU and the RAM, as well as the number of users, connections, and other different
information about the server. In terms of viewing the scheduled content, you could imagine that as
you create new assets, it's going to tell you what different things are scheduled. So I have
a pen example, this portfolio that we scheduled together on this video call, and then the
PowerPoint example that we also published that's going to be executed every few hours or every day.
So you can kind of look at what's coming up and what things are scheduled and make sure that they
are doing what you expect in terms of when they're occurring, what's the frequency, and you can
interact with them very well. As far as storing keys and secure things, that's a great call. So
if I go to a different asset I've created, so a pen, so this is an R Markdown document that has
a very specific beneficial side effect. So within Connect, I have this thing that's being executed,
and I want to pin the code or pin the data to a file here on RStudio Connect. So within the
VEARS pane, you see I have a secret called RStudio Connect Key, which is essentially the API key that
allows me to interact with RStudio Connect programmatically. This could be something else,
this could be database credentials, this could be a username, password, whatever you want it to be.
You could think of it as very similar to like the R environment that you use interactively
inside RStudio Workbench. So if I were to, you know,
edit R Envi, if I were to like use this, edit R Environ, that's kind of similar to what you
would think of it as like you can put things in here in your R environment, and then you can
propagate those into RStudio Connect and create this key value pair. For the RStudio Connect
key, I'm using that so I can publish pins. So this document that I have scheduled generates a
nice table, which is great, you know, it looks at some NFL data and creates a beautiful table,
that's great, but the more interesting thing that it's doing is taking that data and then saving it
out as a pin to RStudio Connect. A pin is just any file or data set that you want to store on RStudio
Connect. So again, rather than emailing back and forth CSVs or putting them into a share drive or
something like that, you can use the pins package, and that will actually allow you to pull in data
sets and share them amongst files or amongst colleagues. So I can take a pin, in this case,
a small data frame of this NFL data, and my RStudio, my R Markdown document that's scheduled
will scrape some data and then publish it to this file. And so this file I can then access,
and I can read it into R by using pin read on the specific name. So even though this data
set gets updated very frequently, I can read in the file from the same place each time.
If you wanted to do something else, you can also pin files like trained models. So let's say that
long model training script that we ran with tidy models, I could actually save that as an RDS file,
upload it as a pin onto RStudio Connect, and then it can be used downstream in other applications.
Now, the last part that I haven't really talked about that much was Package Manager. We've been,
you know, alluding to it a little bit throughout. But what Package Manager is doing is, again,
supplying R packages and Python packages to your environment in terms of the R packages themselves,
like let's say dplyr. You can install it directly from CRAN, sure, but Package Manager is serving
a R package binary in terms of it's pre-compiled and ready to go. So I can install it from Package
Manager. It's going to be much faster, and I don't have to build it from source, which can lead to
avoiding errors or anything else. Package Manager also allows me to use specific versions. So I can
install not only the latest from 1.0.6, but I can also install an older version from, say,
2015. So if I had a legacy project I was working on,
and there was some breaking change I wanted to avoid, I can install this old package.
Another one, so let's say I have one with a system dependency. Let's see about ggplot2.
Kelly, if you can think of one with a system dependency, let's think about that. So period,
color, space. What I'm trying to show here is that it also shows you system dependencies in terms of
for your admins, your IT admin. They're like, I don't know what R is, but what do I have to
install to make it work? So for specific packages, they might have system prerequisites that have to
be installed in environment, and you can install those in Connect and Workbench so that all the
packages work as intended. So let's say sf. Let's do the sf package. So simple features is a package
for creating maps and geospatial analysis in R, and it's amazingly powerful, but it kind of
attaches to a few different other system dependencies. So you can see that this one,
when I go down to these install system prerequisites, it actually provides a few
things that your admin needs to install. But rather than you having to find all these from
scratch and be like, oh, I think you need to install gdol and some other stuff, your admin
can just go in, copy this, and then install those globally for everyone on RStudio Connect
or globally on RStudio Workbench. So that would be a good example of having one with
system dependencies that you can work with there. So we've kind of gone full circle in terms of
talking about RStudio Workbench, all the things you can do there in R and Python, RStudio Connect,
and all the things you can do there in R and Python, scheduling, hosting Shiny applications,
authentication, connecting to databases, the VAERS pane and showing some of the authentication
and credentialing you can do there, as well as package manager for hosting your environments.
I'm going to hop real quickly back into here in terms of talking a bit about some of the
arguments that people have to make internally when you're working with IT, and then I'll stay
around for a bit and answer, again, any more questions as they come in and chat. So you've
gone into RStudio team evaluation, you've created something amazing, you have these
analyses or tools that you want to use, and you've gotten things off your laptop. That's the huge win
there is getting things into a production environment, sharing it across organization,
or embedding it in your other tools. The other hurdle that we didn't really mention, but because
we're solving at the same time, is satisfying IT or your security team and their requirements.
So IT and security, they want to have very specific things. They're like, I don't know,
maybe it's much about open source, they don't know about R or Python, maybe they're Linux admins,
and that's all they know, and that's fine. They just want to know, can it integrate with my
authentication? And the answer is yes. RStudio Workbench, RStudio Connect can integrate with
single sign-on, so things like Okta, as well as things like PAM or LDAP or more traditional
authentication mechanisms. They want to know that your asset that you've created scales
automatically. They don't want to have to go around creating environments for you and spinning
things up and spinning things down. Connect actually handles spinning up new sessions to
meet user demand as they visit the server, so it's handling some of the scaling for you.
They also want to know, okay, well, we're working with sensitive data, so I want to be able to audit
all the things that occur. RStudio Workbench and Connect have auditing and monitoring of the
server resources, metrics, as well as user activity, so that part can be mentioned as well.
And then a few different people asked about connections to databases in terms of,
I wanted to actually see things from Postgres or Snowflake. Yes, you can connect to those
and have them work on Workbench as well as RStudio Connect. So that is what RStudio team is
providing, the ability to get things off your laptop into production while maintaining security,
scalability, best practices. With the open source software you already know and already are using
in R and Python and in a single platform that can be run on premise, on bare metal servers,
or in your virtual private cloud of choice, so like AWS, GCP, Azure, etc. A very good question came in
in terms of version control, and that's a best practice, so I'm actually going to hop back out of
here. We're going to go back into Workbench, or actually let's go into RStudio Connect, and I'm
going to show you one more thing. So someone was saying, well I have something on version control,
and I don't want to use push button deployment, or I don't want to use terminal deployment. Yes, I can
import directly from Git, so I can use an example for today from GitHub, because that's where I have
a lot of my code. So let's hop over to RStudio, or GitHub, and we're going to go full route here. So
let's just go to my GitHub, we'll grab one of the repositories, the RStudio team demo, and if I were
to grab the URL for this, I've got a few different assets in here. I can paste this into RStudio
Connect, and say which branch I want to use. Let's use the dev branch, because I haven't pushed it to
production yet, and then it says, okay this is the asset that you can publish directly from Git.
So I'll title that Git Portfolio Dashboard, and now I deploy this. It's going through the same
process of rebuilding the environment, but I did all of it through version control, in terms of it
actually pulled it in directly, and this is the asset I just created in like 15 seconds, directly
from version control. And part of the beauty here, is that because this was published from version
control, Connect can actually say, I'm going to watch that repository, and I'll check for updates
periodically. So this is kind of a lightweight version of, not quite continuous integration, but
semi-continuous integration, if I'll use that term that way, and Kelly doesn't get mad at me. But the
idea that Connect is now looking for that Git repository, and saying, hey let me pull in this
Git repository. I will build it if I see changes, or I can force it to be built when I click update
now. So I have the ability to publish with the push button deployment from RStudio, or Jupyter.
I can also publish from the R console, or the terminal, and I can also publish from version
control, or bring in something like continuous integration, or continuous deployment, if I wanted
to go that route as well. I realize that, you know, I'm trying to answer a lot of questions as
they come in, but maybe you're like, hey this was not exactly what I wanted, the exact answers I got.
Maybe you had very, very specific questions. Someone mentioned in the chat that you can't
actually book direct calls, or if you just want to talk to someone one-on-one. We've got lots of
different team members with similar knowledge to myself, who can answer more direct questions
by email, or with another call if you want to dive in a bit deeper on any topic.
So hopping back into here, again using best practices, things like version control, as well
as all the things your IT and security team wants, you can build out these very complex, or very
simple assets. So this one, where you can find it solutions.rstudio.com, has examples of like,
you know, pulling in code with our markdown, creating these data sets as pins that serve a
published API in Plumber, and then pulled into a Shiny application, all being served by package
manager. Or doing something similar in Python, but now using a Jupyter notebook in Flask to create
your API instead of Plumber, and they're being consumed by say an API consumer, or by a Plotly
dashboard. So again, kind of full comparison here between R and Python. We've got lots of great
reviews in terms of maybe you want to go read about like what other people think about it,
you can go to trustradius.com, and read all these different reviews from existing customers,
and the things they like to do. In terms of maybe they're doing a lot of Python dev, or maybe they're
core RStudio users, or they use RStudio Connect as their, you know, professional publishing platform
for all their assets. You can read through the real, you know, real thoughts of these people
who are actually using the product. And then in terms of like the complexity that can be built in
here, again, maybe you have other things I didn't show today. Like you want to use a Kubernetes
cluster. Yes, you can use that with RStudio Workbench, and scale up jobs, and then, you know,
crush them back down when they're not needed. Or you can connect to external databases, whether
that's like S3 buckets on Amazon, or a data lake running on Snowflake. You can also run things like
connecting to Tableau, and RStudio Connect can actually host Tableau compatible APIs, so you can
actually embed R code and Python code that interacts with Tableau. And then it can always do
these more traditional things of like working with different decision makers, so they can work with
Shiny, or Dash, or R Markdown reports to influence their decisions in a positive way.
In terms of closing and wrapping up here, in terms of who we are at RStudio, and what makes us a
little bit different, again, a lot of the things we're building are actually free and open source
software, and we absolutely want as many people as possible to use that. That's what the Tidyverse
is, that's what R Markdown, and Shiny, and Tidy models, and all the different, you know, software
that we're creating, and give away for free. These professional software kind of build upon some of
that, and it allows us to give away a lot of the software that we create. So if you do need things
like authentication, or you're trying to use Shiny in an organization, and your IT team says it's a
non-starter unless we have authentication, or scalability, that's where something like RStudio
Connect can come in and solve that problem specifically for you. Specifically in terms of
how our funding works, more than 50% of our engineering resources go to free and open source
software. So basically half, and more than half, of our engineering efforts go to giving away software
that's free. Our pro products fund this ongoing effort so that we can kind of achieve this mission
of giving away and creating free and open source software. And additionally, we contribute to
organizations like NumFocus to extend our impact in organizations like Python, where we're not
necessarily developing as much today, maybe we do some more in the future, but where we want to
contribute financially as well. And lastly, something I'm really proud of is we're a public
benefit corporation, meaning that all of our decisions have to be balanced with the best
interest of the community, our customers, the internal employees, and shareholders. We're not
just here to improve stock prices for some company, we're here to actually serve the community and do
the best job that we can at that. In terms of wrapping up as we're getting close to the top of
the hour, if you did want to learn more, you can read all about Serious Data Science on our blog.
Again, these slides, or I saw a slightly different version that I'd published is available at this
link at the bottom that I'll post in the chat again. And that has links to everything I talked
about within the slide deck. Trust radius reviews, you can book a live meeting or just send an email
to us if you don't want to talk live, that's fine. And if you wanted to evaluate RStudio Team and do
something similar to what I showed you today, you can fill out this form, we'll send you an
evaluation as soon as possible. And then you can do all these cool things in terms of using the
team evaluation to see what Workbench, Connect, and Package Manager look like
before you have to commit to anything. So that's really it for today. I'll try and answer a few
more questions as they come in, but we are at the top of the hour and I know some people may have
only scheduled out the existing time, but I'll stick around for a few more minutes so that we
can answer some more questions. Looks like Kelly, thank you so much for answering a lot of the
questions as they came up, that was a huge help. So thank you, just wanted to get, again, Kelly
O'Brien, the Product Manager for RStudio Connect, many thanks for her time today in terms of seeing
what kind of questions you all have as community members and for helping answer a lot of those.
There was a good question about database information for the,
do the database connections need to be created on RStudio Workbench and Connect? So yes, because
they're environments in terms of you could create an interactive environment on RStudio Workbench.
So if I were to go into RStudio and go into my report portfolio, I can form a connection here
and it'll let me, you know, form a connection with all these different databases, but that's
interactive in terms of like I'm basically killing off that connection whenever I close my
session. RStudio Connect is essentially like a service account where you're actually interacting
with production code and so you're going to have to potentially even use a different login
credentials. You might use a service account as opposed to like my account being Thomas Mock's
account, I would actually use the like RStudio Connect service account to do that. Not required
to use a service account but just saying that they're going to be slightly different and you
would form a similar ODBC connection but in a slightly different way. Can you close your browser
and let your long-running analysis continue? Yes, you could set, you know, I think there was a meme
on Twitter I saw about someone driving around in their car with a laptop and the screen open.
If this session was going to take a long time, yes, you could run it as a background job and have
the timeout be long so it'll stay open and these sessions have controllable timeouts so you can have
some sessions that are forced to die off very quickly or last a bit longer. The other option
and what a lot of customers actually do is for scripts that run that long, it may make more sense
to run them via RStudio Connect. So again, while I can kick off relatively lightweight jobs here,
like I'm starting a local job, I'll rerun this because it takes like two minutes. If it takes
four or five hours, I could actually build out a workflow around it and have it be done by RStudio
Connect. So now Connect will handle running the entire execution and then it will generate some
type of output. Maybe it generates an R Markdown report talking about the model fit or it saves
the model out as a pin or it generates an email with information about it once it's done. So a
lot of different complexity you can build in there beyond just the lightweight scheduling you can do
in Workbench. For the link to the slides, again, I'll copy this over. This is the link directly to
the slides and I heard that there was a slight difference there in terms of the one I showed
today. And then for a lot of the different demo assets, those are available here and a lot of very
cool things on solutions.rstudio. So one more link for everybody. What was the difference between
Team Standard and Team Enterprise? So that's a good question in terms of if I were to go to
RStudio Team Standard and we're live opening something up together.
So the main difference in between Standard and Enterprise is how many servers you need.
For smaller teams, they can basically, you use one server. Like I have Workbench and Connect
and Package Manager. I only need one server for those products. For larger customers, we often
see that they want to have multiple servers and that's where Enterprise is a better fit because
you have as many servers as you want. So you could have like a pre-built server and then you
could have like a pre-production, a dev, an alpha environment or staging as well as your production
environment. Or you can do load balancing across multiple servers or have high availability. So if
one server goes down, you have one to flip over to. So really Standard is where a lot of teams start
in terms of if they just need one server for everything, that's more than fine. You can also
add on individual server components. Enterprise is really just like I want to get as many servers as
I want. I don't want to think about server installs. I can go that route as well.
So we're a few minutes over and looks like the questions have slowed down a little bit.
So thank you so much for your time today. It was a pleasure to have this time with you and
thanks for hanging around with me for an hour. Again, this video will be up on YouTube immediately
after I end the call. So you'll be able to access it or re-watch components if I went a little bit
quickly. If you have any questions, please reach out to RStudio. There's a bunch of different links
that I put up in the slide deck where you can access some of the information I showed today.
You can create an evaluation, email us, book a live call, whatever you want to do.
We're here to help out and answer some questions. There was one more question that came in. I
definitely want to answer that. So our products do come with professional support that's built
into the price. So if you do buy one of the products that comes with support for maintenance
of the RStudio's workbench, RStudio Connect, or package manager, or team, whatever you're purchasing.
You also get access to what we call customer success managers. That's where I used to be
working before taking on this role. And that's more of like a colleague or a peer who knows a
little bit about data science and can help you with like R or Python related questions and help get
you in that direction. So again, thank you so much for your time. Have a great and safe weekend,
and we'll see you next time. Thanks again.